HTTPie Option Referecnce

| Option | What it does                                                 |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| -p     | What to output: H and B for request headers and body, h and b for response headers and body |
| -a     | Authenticate with this username:password combination         |
| --help | View command options and documentation                       |

### Using Postman

You can think of Postman as a specialized web browser that allows a little more manual control and has more buttons and switches as a result.



#### JSON format

- A way to represent data that was derived from the JavaScript language. This format is commonly used when formatting data for consumption by other computers as it has a very well defined structure and is widly supported by both servers and clients.

### Defining API

#### What is an API?

- An API, or Application Programming Interface, provides a way for computer systems to interact with each other.
- While the types of uses for APIs are vast, the one thing all APIs have in common is providing functionality for use by another program.

#### Web APIs

- They operate over HTTP

#### Provider and Consumer

- An API provider is the system that provides an API for other parties to use. GitHub is the prover of the GitBub API, and dropbox is the provider of the Dropbox API.
- An API consumer is the system that uses the API to acomplish some work. When you check the weather on your phone, it is running a program that is consuming a weather API to retrieve forcast data.

#### Enabling Automation

- APIs allow users of a service to make use of it in new and useful ways.

#### Leverage Existing Services

- Even fairly simple sites will need to process credit card payments, send emails, fetch information about books, or call cell phones and read messages to the recipient. While it is possible to write all of the code to perform these tasks oneself, it usually doesn't make sense to, especially for smaller companies with basic needs.
- APIs enable application developers to build their applications on top of a variety of other specailzed systems, allowing them to focus on their actual objectives and not worry about all the complexities of every part of the system.

## A Review of HTTP

- URLs descibe what resource is being targeted
- HTTP defines how systems send messages about these resources, and data formats allow these messages to be converted into data that is then acted on.

#### Request and Response

- Web APIs are based on the same technologies that allow websites, web browsers, and web servers to work: HTTP.
- HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol describes how a client program (such as a web browser) interacts with servers. These interactions are based on a request-response pattern, where the client asks the server for something it wants (the request) and the server then sends something back (the response).





It looks like markitondemand is depreciated: https://github.com/markitondemand/DEPRECATED-DataApis

So the example in the Web APIs book doesn't work anymore.

Instead, to get stock data, you can use IEXCloud, but you just need to sign up for a free account and get a publishable token: https://iexcloud.io/

Once you get your token, the HTTP request would look like this:
`http https://cloud.iexapis.com/v1/stock/tsla/book\?token\=pk_79c9df6b8ded4c828a855cd5bac33d32`



#### Summary

- Web APIs are built on top of HTTP, the technology that makes the web work.
- HTTP Responses have 3 main parts: status code, headers, and body.
- The Content-Type header describes the format of the response body.

## A Review of URLs

- URI, or uniform resource identifier, is a name used to identify a resource. The resources represented by URIs can be anywhere.
- URL, or uniform resource locator, is the location where a resource can be found.
- When it comes to deciding to use URI or URL, the thing to remember is this: if you are working with resources on the internet, just use URL.

#### Summary

- Working with web APIs involves working with URLs
- URLs represent where a resource is and how it can be accessed.
- URLs typically contain a protocol, hostname, path, and sometimes a query string.
- Paths (and URLs) can include placeholders when they are written generically.

### Media Types

- A data serialization format decscribes a way for programs to convert data into a form which is more easily or efficiently stored or transferred. The stored or transferred data can then be convered back into the original data at any time by the original program or any other progam that can understand its format.

#### XML

- XML - Extensible Markup Language
- Shares common heritage with HTML: they are both based on an earlier and similar type of markup, SGML.
- XML is generally stricter than HTML and doesn't handle missing tags or improper nesting.
- It was fairly common to see XML used with APIs in the past, and while some services continue to support XML, JSON has become much more common.

#### JSON

- JSON - JavaScript Object Notation
- Perhaps the most popular data serialization format used by web APIs today.
- The syntax JSON uses is based on the way object literals are written in JavaScript, the ubiquitous scripting language of the web.

#### Summary

- Media types describe the format of a respons's body.
- Media types are represented in an HTTP response's `Content-Type` header, and as a result, are sometimes referred to as content types.
- Data serialization provides a common way for systems to pass data to each other, with a guarantee that each system will be able to understand the data.
- JSON is the most popular media type for web APIs and the one this book will focus on.

### REST and CRUD

#### What is REST?

- Often used to describe a set of conventions for how to build APIs. 
- REST - Represnetational State Transfer
  - representational refers to how a representation of a resource is being transferred, and not the resource itself.
  - state transfer refers to how HTTP is a stateless protocol. This means that servers don't know anything at all about the clients, and that everything the server needs to process the request (the state) is included in the request itself.
- A goodway to think about REST is as a way to define everything you might want to do with two values, *what* and *how*.

### CRUD

- CRUD is an acronym that is used to descibe the four actions that can be taken upon resources:
- Create, Read, Update, Delete

### A RESTful API Template

Here is one more table, only this time it is a template for **any resource**. That's right- any resource at all! Profiles, products, ingredients, automobiles, flights, money transfers, payments... anything.

We'll use *$RESOURCE* to represent the specific resource in this table.

| Objective                             | How         | What     |                       |                 |
| :------------------------------------ | :---------- | :------- | :-------------------- | --------------- |
| Operation                             | HTTP Method | Resource | Path                  |                 |
| Get the information about a $RESOURCE | Read        | GET      | $RESOURCE             | /$RESOURCEs/:id |
| Add a $RESOURCE to the system         | Create      | POST     | $RESOURCEs Collection | /$RESOURCEs     |
| Make a change to a $RESOURCE          | Update      | PUT      | $RESOURCE             | /$RESOURCEs/:id |
| Remove a $RESOURCE from the system    | Delete      | DELETE   | $RESOURCE             | /$RESOURCEs/:id |

By following REST conventions, most of the decisions a designer has to make turn into: *What resources will be exposed*? API consumers mostly need to ask: *what resource will allow me to achieve my goal*?

#### Summary

- REST is a set of conventions about how to build APIs.
- RESTful APIs consist of CRUD actions on a resource
- By limiting actions to CRUD, REST requires thinking in a *resource-oriented way*
- It is worth being as RESTful as possible, but there are times when it is not the best solution.

## What is a Resource?

- A resource is the representation of some grouping of data. A resource can be anything an API user needs to interact with.
- Every resource in a web API must have a unique URL that can be used to identify and access it. In this case, the URL was `http GET http://api-practicimos.herokuapp.com/v1/products/1` and the URL was for a single resource on the server.
- `http GET http://api-practicimos.herokuapp.com/v1/products`

#### Elements and Collections

- Elements are the representation of a single resource.
- Collections represent a grouping of elements of the same type. It is common for collection and element resource sto have a parent-child relationship, where the collection is the "parent" and the element is a "child", although this is not always the case.

#### Summary

- APIs provide access to single resources (elements) or groups of resources (collections).
- The path for an element is usualy the path for its collection, plus an identifer for that resource.

## Requests in Depth

#### GET and POST

- All requests made to web servers start with an HTTP method.

#### Parts of a Request

- The Accept Header specifies what media types the client will accept in response to this request. \*/\* means that the client will accept any media type in a request. The web store server returns JSON by default, so requests like the previous one would probably be OK to use. However, it is better to be in the habit of crafting more explicit requests.

#### Summary

- HTTP requests include a path, method, headers, and body.
- The **Accept** header tells the provider what media types can be used to respond to the request.

## Creating Resources

- Create new product:

`http -a admin:password POST api-practicimos.herokuapp.com/v1/products name="Purple Pen" sku="purp100" price=100`

- Fetch all the products again to verify a new product was created:

` http GET api-practicimos.herokuapp.com/v1/products`



#### Summary

- Resources can be created with POST requests.
- Requests should include all required parameters and use the proper media type.
- Responses to failed requests will often contain infomration about the cause of the failure.

## More HTTP Methods

- Use HTTP method PUT to update resources
- Uuse HTTP method DELETE to delete resources.